Ref: https://nationalpost.com/shopping-essentials/oscar-best-picture-nominees-and-where-to-stream-in-canada

Reviews and recommendations are unbiased and products are independently selected. Postmedia may earn an affiliate commission from purchases made through links on this page.
Article content
With the Oscars around the corner on Sunday, March 10, 2024, it’s almost essential to watch some of the most buzz-worthy titles. Whether it’s Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling in Barbie, or the best picture frontrunner Oppenheimer by Christopher Nolan, consider this the essential viewing guide to Oscars 2024.

Film: American Fiction
Nominations: Five, including Best Picture, Adapted Screenplay, Actor in a Supporting Role (for Sterling K. Brown) and Actor in a Leading Role (for Jeffrey Wright).
Synopsis: Cord Jefferson’s hilarious directorial debut confronts our culture’s obsession with reducing people to outrageous stereotypes. Jeffrey Wright stars as Monk, a frustrated novelist who is fed up with the establishment profiting from Black entertainment that relies on tired and offensive tropes. To prove his point, Monk uses a pen name to write his own outlandish Black book — that propels him into the heart of hypocrisy and the madness he claims to disdain.
Based on: The novel Erasure by Percival Everett
Where to watch: Prime Video (sign up here)
Advertisement 2

Trending
    'Rain tax': People in Toronto could end up paying for the rain that falls on their property
    Olivia Chow
    Cuba Gooding Jr. accused of sexual assault as part of $30 million Diddy lawsuit
    Cuba Gooding Jr.
    Terry Glavin: Liberals are leaving an ungodly mess for Poilievre's Conservatives to clean up
    election
    Toronto man loses life savings to Justin Trudeau deepfake cryptocurrency scam
    Justin Trudeau speaking
    Trudeau tries to win back younger voters with first pre-budget announcements
    Justin Trudeau

Article content

Film: Anatomy of a Fall
Nominations: Five, including Original Screenplay, Directing (for Justine Triet), Actress in a Leading Role (for Sandra Hüller) and Best Picture.
Synopsis: The crime thriller tells the tale of a woman (Sandra Hüller) suspected of her husband’s murder, and their blind son faces a moral dilemma as the main witness. The question is — who’s telling the real truth? 
Where to watch: Prime Video (sign up here)

Film: Barbie
Nominations: Eight, including Best Picture, Adapted Screenplay, Actress in a Supporting Role (for America Ferrera) Actor in a Supporting Role (Ryan Gosling) and Original Song (“I’m Just Ken” and Billie Eilish’s “What Was I Made For?”)
Synopsis: Barbie (Robbie) and Ken (Gosling) are having the time of their lives in the colourful and seemingly perfect world of Barbie Land. However, when they get a chance to go to the real world, they soon discover the joys and perils of living among humans.
Partially based on: Reviving Ophelia by Mary Pipher
Where to watch: Crave

Film: The Holdovers
Nominations: Five, including Original Screenplay, Actress in a Supporting Role (for Da’Vine Joy Randolph), Actor in a Leading Role (for Paul Giamatti) and Best Picture.
Synopsis: This dramedy tells the story of a cranky history teacher at a remote prep school, forced to remain on campus over the holidays with a troubled student who has no place to go.
Where to watch: Prime Video (sign up here)

Film: Killers of the Flower Moon
Nominations: 10, including Best Picture, Actor in a Supporting Role (for Robert De Niro) and Actress in Leading Role (for Lily Gladstone) and Martin Scorsese for Best Director. 
Synopsis: Real love crosses paths with unspeakable betrayal as Mollie Burkhart (Gladstone), a member of the Osage Nation, tries to save her community from a spree of murders fueled by oil and greed.
Based on: The true-crime book Killers of the Flower Moon: The Osage Murders and the Birth of the FBI by David Grann
Where to watch: Apple TV+

Film: Maestro
Nominations: Seven, including Best Picture, Original Screenplay, Actress in a Leading Role (for Carey Mulligan) and Actor in a Leading Role (for Bradley Cooper).
Synopsis: On the verge of securing a golden opportunity, American conductor Leonard Bernstein (Bradley Cooper) begins a tumultuous relationship with actress Felicia Montealegre (Mulligan), upturning their lives.
Where to watch: Netflix

Film: Oppenheimer
Nominations: 13, including Best Picture, Adapted Screenplay, Directing, Actor in a Leading Role (for Cillian Murphy), Actor in a Supporting Role (for Robert Downey Jr.) and Actress in a Supporting Role (for Emily Blunt)
Synopsis: From Academy Award-winning filmmaker Christopher Nolan and stars Peaky Blinder’s Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer tells the story of American scientist, J. Robert Oppenheimer, and his role in the development of the atomic bomb.
Based on: 2005 biography American Prometheus by Kai Bird and Martin J. Sherwin
Where to watch: Prime Video (sign up here)

Article content

Film: Past Lives
Nominations: Two, including Original Screenplay (for Canadian filmmaker Celine Song) and Best Picture 
Synopsis: Nora (Greta Lee) and Hae Sung (Teo Yoo), two deeply connected childhood friends, are separated after Nora’s family emigrates from South Korea. Decades later, they are reunited for one fateful week as they confront destiny, love and the choices that make a life.
Where to watch: Prime Video (sign up here)

Oppenheimer
Oppenheimer. Photo by Universal Pictures

Film: Poor Things
Nominations: 11, including Best Picture, Adapted Screenplay, Directing (for Yorgos Lanthimos), Actor in a Supporting Role (for Mark Ruffalo) and Emma Stone for Best Actress 
Synopsis: From filmmaker Yorgos Lanthimos and producer Emma Stone comes this incredible tale and fantastical evolution of Bella Baxter (Emma Stone), a young woman brought back to life by the brilliant and unorthodox scientist Dr. Godwin Baxter (Willem Dafoe). Under Baxter’s protection, Bella is eager to learn. Hungry for the worldliness she is lacking, Bella runs off with Duncan Wedderburn (Mark Ruffalo), a slick and debauched lawyer, on a whirlwind adventure across the continents.
Based on: The novel Poor Things by Alasdair Gray
Where to watch: Disney+

Film: The Zone of Interest
Nominations: Five, including International Feature, Best Picture, Adapted Screenplay and Directing (for Jonathan Glazer).
Synopsis: The commandant of Auschwitz, Rudolf Höss, and his wife Hedwig, strive to build a dream life for their family in a house and garden next to the camp.
Based on: The novel The Zone of Interest by Martin Amis
Where to watch: Available on demand on Prime Video (sign up here)
Article content

Film: The Zone of Interest
Nominations: Five, including International Feature, Best Picture, Adapted Screenplay and Directing (for Jonathan Glazer).
Synopsis: The commandant of Auschwitz, Rudolf Höss, and his wife Hedwig, strive to build a dream life for their family in a house and garden next to the camp.
Based on: The novel The Zone of Interest by Martin Amis
Where to watch: Available on demand on Prime Video (sign up here)

Recommended from Editorial
    Oscar-nominated film American Fiction will be streaming on Amazon Prime Mar. 8.
    What’s streaming March 2024: New on Netflix, Prime Video and more
    The women of Love is Blind season 6, premiering on Netflix Feb.14.
    What’s streaming Feb. 2024: New on Netflix, Prime Video and more

Shopping Essentials is a category written by research-obsessed shopping experts. Explore product reviews, recommendations and launches — plus behind-the-scenes info on your favourite brands and hidden gems — learn more here or sign up for our newsletter.

Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.






