Ref: https://editorial.rottentomatoes.com/guide/oscars-2024-best-picture-nominees/

Oscars 2024 Best Picture Nominees Ranked by Tomatometer

Here are the nominees for the 2024 Best Picture Oscar. Like with the past two ceremonies, the Academy will be voting from a pool of 10 movies, all of which have been deemed Certified Fresh by critics. This includes inescapable box office smashes Oppenheimer and Barbie, the Martin Scorsese 3-hour-plus epic Killers of the Flower Moon, and big Golden Globe winner Poor Things. Jonathan Glazer released his first film in 10 years (since Under the Skin) with the unsettling The Zone of Interest, as Bradley Cooper follows 2018’s A Star is Born with another top honor nominee, passion project Maestro. Incisive dramas (some with splashes of romance and thriller) made a showing across The Holdovers, American Fiction, Anatomy of a Fall, and Past Lives.


The Holdovers (2023)
97%
#1
Critics Consensus: Beautifully bittersweet, The Holdovers marks a satisfying return to form for director Alexander Payne.
Synopsis: From acclaimed director Alexander Payne, THE HOLDOVERS follows a curmudgeonly instructor (Paul Giamatti) at a New England prep school who... [More]
Starring: Paul Giamatti, Da'Vine Joy Randolph, Dominic Sessa, Carrie Preston
Directed By: Alexander Payne


Past Lives (2023)
95%
#2
Critics Consensus: A remarkable debut for writer-director Celine Song, Past Lives uses the bonds between its sensitively sketched central characters to support trenchant observations on the human condition.
Synopsis: Nora and Hae Sung, two deeply connected childhood friends, are wrest apart after Nora's family emigrates from South Korea. Two... [More]
Starring: Greta Lee, Teo Yoo, John Magaro, Seung-ah Moon
Directed By: Celine Song


Anatomy of a Fall (2023)
96%
#3
Critics Consensus: A smart, solidly crafted procedural that's anchored in family drama, Anatomy of a Fall finds star Sandra Hüller and director/co-writer Justine Triet operating at peak power.
Synopsis: For the past year, Sandra, her husband Samuel, and their eleven-year-old son Daniel have lived a secluded life in a... [More]
Starring: Sandra Hüller, Swann Arlaud, Milo Machado Graner, Antoine Reinartz
Directed By: Justine Triet


American Fiction (2023)
93%
#4
Critics Consensus: Jeffrey Wright and American Fiction will forever be inextricable thanks to the actor's committed approach to the pointedly humorous and insightful material.
Synopsis: AMERICAN FICTION is Cord Jefferson's hilarious directorial debut, which confronts our culture's obsession with reducing people to outrageous stereotypes. Jeffrey... [More]
Starring: Jeffrey Wright, Tracee Ellis Ross, John Ortiz, Erika Alexander
Directed By: Cord Jefferson


Oppenheimer (2023)
93%
#5
Critics Consensus: Oppenheimer marks another engrossing achievement from Christopher Nolan that benefits from Murphy's tour-de-force performance and stunning visuals.
Synopsis: During World War II, Lt. Gen. Leslie Groves Jr. appoints physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer to work on the top-secret Manhattan... [More]
Starring: Cillian Murphy, Emily Blunt, Robert Downey Jr., Matt Damon
Directed By: Christopher Nolan


Killers of the Flower Moon (2023)
93%
#6
Critics Consensus: Enormous in runtime, theme, and achievement, Killers of the Flower Moon is a sobering appraisal of America's relationship with Indigenous peoples and yet another artistic zenith for Martin Scorsese and his collaborators.
Synopsis: Based on David Grann's broadly lauded best-selling book, "Killers of the Flower Moon" is set in 1920s Oklahoma and depicts... [More]
Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio, Robert De Niro, Jesse Plemons, Lily Gladstone
Directed By: Martin Scorsese


The Zone of Interest (2023)
93%
#7
Critics Consensus: Dispassionately examining the ordinary existence of people complicit in horrific crimes, The Zone of Interest forces us to take a cold look at the mundanity behind an unforgivable brutality.
Synopsis: The commandant of Auschwitz, Rudolf Höss, and his wife Hedwig, strive to build a dream life for their family in... [More]
Starring: Christian Friedel, Sandra Hüller, Medusa Knopf, Daniel Holzberg
Directed By: Jonathan Glazer


Poor Things (2023)
92%
#8
Critics Consensus: Wildly imaginative and exhilaratingly over the top, Poor Things is a bizarre, brilliant tour de force for director Yorgos Lanthimos and star Emma Stone.
Synopsis: From filmmaker Yorgos Lanthimos and producer Emma Stone comes the incredible tale and fantastical evolution of Bella Baxter (Stone), a... [More]
Starring: Emma Stone, Willem Dafoe, Mark Ruffalo, Christopher Abbott
Directed By: Yorgos Lanthimos


Barbie (2023)
88%
#9
Critics Consensus: Barbie is a visually dazzling comedy whose meta humor is smartly complemented by subversive storytelling.
Synopsis: To live in Barbie Land is to be a perfect being in a perfect place. Unless you have a full-on... [More]
Starring: Margot Robbie, Ryan Gosling, America Ferrera, Kate McKinnon
Directed By: Greta Gerwig


Maestro (2023)
79%
#10
Critics Consensus: Led by a pair of powerful performances, Maestro serves as a stirring overview of a tremendous talent's life and legacy.
Synopsis: Maestro is a towering and fearless love story chronicling the lifelong relationship between Leonard Bernstein and Felicia Montealegre Cohn Bernstein.... [More]
Starring: Bradley Cooper, Carey Mulligan, Matt Bomer, Maya Hawke
Directed By: Bradley Cooper







